README.md, before:

# hackboard

To start make sure you have run `yarn install` (just once) and then execute following commands:
* `mvnw spring-boot:run`: (runs the backend)
* `yarn start`: (runs the frontend)

## Committing
Each commit must have an associated Issue on Github. The issue number must be included as 
reference in each commit message at the beginning.

The format is: #[issue number]: [text].
For example a commit message for issue number 20 would be formatted like:

`#20: created and entity` 

What follows is the documentation generated by JHipster.


### Service workers

Service workers are commented by default, to enable them please uncomment the following code.

* The service worker registering script in index.html

```html
<script>
    if ('serviceWorker' in navigator) {
        navigator.serviceWorker
        .register('./sw.js')
        .then(function() { console.log('Service Worker Registered'); });
    }
</script>
```

Note: workbox creates the respective service worker and dynamically generate the `sw.js`

### Managing dependencies

For example, to add [Leaflet][] library as a runtime dependency of your application, you would run following command:

    yarn add --exact leaflet

To benefit from TypeScript type definitions from [DefinitelyTyped][] repository in development, you would run following command:

    yarn add --dev --exact @types/leaflet

Then you would import the JS and CSS files specified in library's installation instructions so that [Webpack][] knows about them:
Edit [src/main/webapp/app/vendor.ts](src/main/webapp/app/vendor.ts) file:
~~~
import 'leaflet/dist/leaflet.js';
~~~

Edit [src/main/webapp/content/css/vendor.css](src/main/webapp/content/css/vendor.css) file:
~~~
@import '~leaflet/dist/leaflet.css';
~~~
Note: there are still few other things remaining to do for Leaflet that we won't detail here.

For further instructions on how to develop with JHipster, have a look at [Using JHipster in development][].

### Using angular-cli

You can also use [Angular CLI][] to generate some custom client code.

For example, the following command:

    ng generate component my-component

will generate few files:

    create src/main/webapp/app/my-component/my-component.component.html
    create src/main/webapp/app/my-component/my-component.component.ts
    update src/main/webapp/app/app.module.ts


## Building for production

To optimize the hackboard application for production, run:

    ./mvnw -Pprod clean package

This will concatenate and minify the client CSS and JavaScript files. It will also modify `index.html` so it references these new files.
To ensure everything worked, run:

    java -jar target/*.war

Then navigate to [http://localhost:8080](http://localhost:8080) in your browser.

Refer to [Using JHipster in production][] for more details.

## Testing

To launch your application's tests, run:

    ./mvnw clean test

### Client tests

Unit tests are run by [Karma][] and written with [Jasmine][]. They're located in [src/test/javascript/](src/test/javascript/) and can be run with:

    yarn test



For more information, refer to the [Running tests page][].

## Using Docker to simplify development (optional)

You can use Docker to improve your JHipster development experience. A number of docker-compose configuration are available in the [src/main/docker](src/main/docker) folder to launch required third party services.

For example, to start a mysql database in a docker container, run:

    docker-compose -f src/main/docker/mysql.yml up -d

To stop it and remove the container, run:

    docker-compose -f src/main/docker/mysql.yml down

You can also fully dockerize your application and all the services that it depends on.
To achieve this, first build a docker image of your app by running:

    ./mvnw verify -Pprod dockerfile:build

Then run:

    docker-compose -f src/main/docker/app.yml up -d

For more information refer to [Using Docker and Docker-Compose][], this page also contains information on the docker-compose sub-generator (`jhipster docker-compose`), which is able to generate docker configurations for one or several JHipster applications.

## Continuous Integration (optional)

To configure CI for your project, run the ci-cd sub-generator (`jhipster ci-cd`), this will let you generate configuration files for a number of Continuous Integration systems. Consult the [Setting up Continuous Integration][] page for more information.

[JHipster Homepage and latest documentation]: http://www.jhipster.tech
[JHipster 4.14.3 archive]: http://www.jhipster.tech/documentation-archive/v4.14.3

[Using JHipster in development]: http://www.jhipster.tech/documentation-archive/v4.14.3/development/
[Using Docker and Docker-Compose]: http://www.jhipster.tech/documentation-archive/v4.14.3/docker-compose
[Using JHipster in production]: http://www.jhipster.tech/documentation-archive/v4.14.3/production/
[Running tests page]: http://www.jhipster.tech/documentation-archive/v4.14.3/running-tests/
[Setting up Continuous Integration]: http://www.jhipster.tech/documentation-archive/v4.14.3/setting-up-ci/


[Node.js]: https://nodejs.org/
[Yarn]: https://yarnpkg.org/
[Webpack]: https://webpack.github.io/
[Angular CLI]: https://cli.angular.io/
[BrowserSync]: http://www.browsersync.io/
[Karma]: http://karma-runner.github.io/
[Jasmine]: http://jasmine.github.io/2.0/introduction.html
[Protractor]: https://angular.github.io/protractor/
[Leaflet]: http://leafletjs.com/
[DefinitelyTyped]: http://definitelytyped.org/

Commit message:

#37: documentation for commit-message-validator

README.md, after:

# hackboard

To start make sure you have run `yarn install` (just once) and then execute following commands:

* `mvnw spring-boot:run`: (runs the backend)
* `yarn start`: (runs the frontend)

## Committing

Each commit must have an associated Issue on Github. The issue number must be included as
reference in each commit message at the beginning.

The format is: #[issue number]: [text].
For example a commit message for issue number 20 would be formatted like:

`#20: created and entity`

In order to make this work, we are using the npm library `commit-message-validator` which is part of the `devDependencies` in `package.json`. Together with the npm library `husky` which can execute git hooks it runs on each commit. The rules can be found under the property `config.commit-message-validator` in `package.json`.

What follows is the documentation generated by JHipster.

### Service workers

Service workers are commented by default, to enable them please uncomment the following code.

* The service worker registering script in index.html

```html
<script>
    if ('serviceWorker' in navigator) {
        navigator.serviceWorker
        .register('./sw.js')
        .then(function() { console.log('Service Worker Registered'); });
    }
</script>
```

Note: workbox creates the respective service worker and dynamically generate the `sw.js`

### Managing dependencies

For example, to add [Leaflet][] library as a runtime dependency of your application, you would run following command:

    yarn add --exact leaflet

To benefit from TypeScript type definitions from [DefinitelyTyped][] repository in development, you would run following command:

    yarn add --dev --exact @types/leaflet

Then you would import the JS and CSS files specified in library's installation instructions so that [Webpack][] knows about them:
Edit [src/main/webapp/app/vendor.ts](src/main/webapp/app/vendor.ts) file:

```
import 'leaflet/dist/leaflet.js';
```

Edit [src/main/webapp/content/css/vendor.css](src/main/webapp/content/css/vendor.css) file:

```
@import '~leaflet/dist/leaflet.css';
```

Note: there are still few other things remaining to do for Leaflet that we won't detail here.

For further instructions on how to develop with JHipster, have a look at [Using JHipster in development][].

### Using angular-cli

You can also use [Angular CLI][] to generate some custom client code.

For example, the following command:

    ng generate component my-component

will generate few files:

    create src/main/webapp/app/my-component/my-component.component.html
    create src/main/webapp/app/my-component/my-component.component.ts
    update src/main/webapp/app/app.module.ts

## Building for production

To optimize the hackboard application for production, run:

    ./mvnw -Pprod clean package

This will concatenate and minify the client CSS and JavaScript files. It will also modify `index.html` so it references these new files.
To ensure everything worked, run:

    java -jar target/*.war

Then navigate to [http://localhost:8080](http://localhost:8080) in your browser.

Refer to [Using JHipster in production][] for more details.

## Testing

To launch your application's tests, run:

    ./mvnw clean test

### Client tests

Unit tests are run by [Karma][] and written with [Jasmine][]. They're located in [src/test/javascript/](src/test/javascript/) and can be run with:

    yarn test

For more information, refer to the [Running tests page][].

## Using Docker to simplify development (optional)

You can use Docker to improve your JHipster development experience. A number of docker-compose configuration are available in the [src/main/docker](src/main/docker) folder to launch required third party services.

For example, to start a mysql database in a docker container, run:

    docker-compose -f src/main/docker/mysql.yml up -d

To stop it and remove the container, run:

    docker-compose -f src/main/docker/mysql.yml down

You can also fully dockerize your application and all the services that it depends on.
To achieve this, first build a docker image of your app by running:

    ./mvnw verify -Pprod dockerfile:build

Then run:

    docker-compose -f src/main/docker/app.yml up -d

For more information refer to [Using Docker and Docker-Compose][], this page also contains information on the docker-compose sub-generator (`jhipster docker-compose`), which is able to generate docker configurations for one or several JHipster applications.

## Continuous Integration (optional)

To configure CI for your project, run the ci-cd sub-generator (`jhipster ci-cd`), this will let you generate configuration files for a number of Continuous Integration systems. Consult the [Setting up Continuous Integration][] page for more information.

[jhipster homepage and latest documentation]: http://www.jhipster.tech
[jhipster 4.14.3 archive]: http://www.jhipster.tech/documentation-archive/v4.14.3
[using jhipster in development]: http://www.jhipster.tech/documentation-archive/v4.14.3/development/
[using docker and docker-compose]: http://www.jhipster.tech/documentation-archive/v4.14.3/docker-compose
[using jhipster in production]: http://www.jhipster.tech/documentation-archive/v4.14.3/production/
[running tests page]: http://www.jhipster.tech/documentation-archive/v4.14.3/running-tests/
[setting up continuous integration]: http://www.jhipster.tech/documentation-archive/v4.14.3/setting-up-ci/
[node.js]: https://nodejs.org/
[yarn]: https://yarnpkg.org/
[webpack]: https://webpack.github.io/
[angular cli]: https://cli.angular.io/
[browsersync]: http://www.browsersync.io/
[karma]: http://karma-runner.github.io/
[jasmine]: http://jasmine.github.io/2.0/introduction.html
[protractor]: https://angular.github.io/protractor/
[leaflet]: http://leafletjs.com/
[definitelytyped]: http://definitelytyped.org/
